Hey! So, this is Game Design Document Creation!
In this video, we're going to create a simple G.D.D.
live, together. We're going to write
a paragraph, explaining the game concept.
We will list the major game rules,
define the asset requirements, and then
finally think about how we might monetize the game.
Hey guys! So, I want to show you how I
actually come up with concept rules and requirements, live as we go. So,
you're actually watching me edit the slides, that will end up
in the Slide Deck here. So, this is the same section
notes or section slides, as you all have downloaded off
the previous video, off the first video in the section.
So, the concept, what is a game concept?
Well, it's just a paragraph describing what it is. Try firstly,
and sum it up in 5 words. So, in this case, it could be a
point and click. We're going to leave the word
A out, because it's a bit wasteful of my 5 words.
A ship game. OK, well that doesn't tell you much, but it gets you off the ground.
It helps people silo it in their mind. It's a point and click ship
game. So, we're going to be
an isometric, which is the view,
multi-
player, including
a cross platform...
And something like
the idea is
to become
king of the seas,
by defeating enemy
pirate ships or something like that. Nice and simple! Let's
move on for now, that's enough. You've jotted down the concept, you're going to refine
this later, as you go in your game, so I just want you to jot something
down. So, what are the rules? Well, this is where you start to flesh out
how it may actually work. So, we could say that
"You start with 100 health."
And
...
the shooting... "Getting shot
reduces health."
Simple stuff. And then, you might want to say something like
hitting a land
mass kills you instantly.
But think about that. If it's a point
and click game and the AI
pathfinding is going to make us path-find around land masses,
then hitting a land mass and killing you is something the you don't
have control or agency over, so you actually don't want to make
that part of this game. So, I'm going to reduce that
requirement, and then, I'm going to say something like
"Move...
"Move in range of
other ships, to shoot them."
"No win condition,
...
Well, better say what happens if you... So, "You score
for killing
the enemy." You could say
"You lose score
for being killed."
OK
sounding a bit boring. So, perhaps we
want to introduce a requirement that the guns can
only fire sideways. So, "Guns can only
fire in 90 degree
arc, either side of ship."
Now, you need to position yourself, side on to the other ship,
and approach in such a way that you'll side on. That sounds
a little bit better. So, there are some rough rules that could
lead to a fun game. So, what are the asset requirements?
We will need an Animated Ship Asset, so
let's just put that down.
We seem to be missing a bullet here, so
it doesn't matter I'll let them in, in a minute.
An animated ship. We're going to need the terrain,
with scattered
islands, mainly water.
We're going to need sound effects for the
gun, for the hit,
maybe for sinking? And we're going to need background
music, and then, thinking to
the beginning of the game, we're going to need a splash screen
image. And that's it for now!
That's all I can think of for now. And then you've got some idea of
who may be creating what. Is all you? Is it an artist whatever?
Then, monetization! So, a million ways to monetize a game.
In this case, we're not going to monetize it, so
this will be a free game,
designed to play with
our friends to learn
more about networking.
So, the only purpose of putting this down, is to give you some idea
that you want to start thinking about monetization, in the long run.
So, that's it! It's literally a question of a simple concept, some simple
rules, and some requirements, and
some notes on how you're going to do monetization. All of this would
obviously be expanded, as you build the game, but you just want to get
cracking with a very early prototype, that you can start to
show to people and see what the interest is.
That's it! In the next video, we will actually start building the project
and getting networking working!